# 5

## 5.1

Whats the lowest location number that corresponds to any of the inital seed numbers?

## How?

1. Parse seed input and maps.

- Maps describe how to convert numbers from a source category into numbers in a destination category. (e.g. seed-to-soil)

- Maps describe ranges:

  - `destination range start | source range start | range length`

- Any source numbers that aren't mapped (don't fall into the range of the map) correspond to the same destination.
  (e.g. seed number 10 -> soil number 10)

2. Build up map of structs which hould the `destination range start`, `source range start` and `range length`.

3. Run all seeds through all mappings.

- if number not part of the range, map x -> x
- if number is part of the range, map x -> y

-> Get lowest location.

## 5.2

### Optimizations

- Try to find unnecessary loops and replace them with constat calculation
  -> Mapping to location -> inner loop

- Seeds come in ranges e.g. 79 14 is the range from 79 to 92. 
  -> How can we not compute all the seeds in order to get the lowest location?

  Strategy:
  1. Compute seedStart seedEnd and rangeLength.
  2. For each mapping stage, compare seed range to the provided mapping range.
  3. If a part of the seed range fits within the mapping range, apply mapping transformation to the sub range.
  4. For seeds that do not fit into any mapping range, apply a 1:1 mapping. 
  5. Repeat splitting of the ranges and store them until we reach the location mapping.
  6. Determine the lower bound of each location range -> search for the lowest.
  